README.md, before:

Laptop
======
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/monfresh/laptop.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/monfresh/laptop)

Laptop is a script to set up an OS X computer for web development.

It can be run multiple times on the same machine safely. It installs,
upgrades, or skips packages based on what is already installed on the machine.

This particular version of the script is geared toward beginners who want to
set up a Ruby on Rails environment on their Mac. More advanced users can
easily [customize](#customize-in-laptoplocal) the script to install additional
tools. To see an example of a more advanced script, check out
[18F/laptop](https://github.com/18F/laptop).

Requirements
------------

I support clean installations of these operating systems:

* [OS X Yosemite (10.10)](https://www.apple.com/osx/)
* OS X Mavericks (10.9)

Older versions may work but aren't regularly tested. Bug reports for older
versions are welcome.

Install
-------

Begin by opening the Terminal application on your Mac. The easiest way to open
an application in OS X is to search for it via [Spotlight]. The default
keyboard shortcut for invoking Spotlight is `command-Space`. Once Spotlight
is up, just start typing the first few letters of the app you are looking for,
and once it appears, press `return` to launch it.

In your Terminal window, copy and paste each of these three commands one at a
time, then press `return` after each one to download, review, and execute the
script respectively:

```sh
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/monfresh/laptop/master/mac
cat mac
bash mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log && source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
```

I also have more [detailed instructions with a video][video] in the Wiki.

[Spotlight]: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204014
[video]: https://github.com/monfresh/laptop/wiki/Detailed-installation-instructions-with-video

Debugging
---------

Your last Laptop run will be saved to `~/laptop.log`. Read through it to see if
you can debug the issue yourself. If not, copy the lines where the script
failed into a [new GitHub
Issue](https://github.com/monfresh/laptop/issues/new) for me. Or, attach the
whole log file as an attachment.

What it sets up
---------------

* [Flux] for adjusting your Mac's display color so you can sleep better
* [GitHub for Mac] for setting up your SSH keys automatically
* [Heroku Toolbelt] for deploying and managing Heroku apps
* [Homebrew] for managing operating system libraries
* [Homebrew Cask] for quickly installing Mac apps from the command line
* [Homebrew Services] so you can easily stop, start, and restart services
* [hub] for interacting with the GitHub API
* [Postgres] for storing relational data
* [Qt] for headless JavaScript testing via Capybara Webkit
* [RVM] for managing Ruby versions (includes [Bundler] and the latest [Ruby])
* [Sublime Text 3] for coding all the things
* [Zsh] as your shell

[Bundler]: http://bundler.io/
[Flux]: https://justgetflux.com/
[GitHub for Mac]: https://mac.github.com/
[Heroku Toolbelt]: https://toolbelt.heroku.com/
[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/
[Homebrew Cask]: http://caskroom.io/
[Homebrew Services]: https://github.com/gapple/homebrew-services
[hub]: https://github.com/github/hub
[Postgres]: http://www.postgresql.org/
[Qt]: http://qt-project.org/
[Ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
[RVM]: https://github.com/wayneeseguin/rvm
[Sublime Text 3]: http://www.sublimetext.com/3
[Zsh]: http://www.zsh.org/

It should take less than 15 minutes to install (depends on your machine and
internet connection).

Customize in `~/.laptop.local`
------------------------------

Your `~/.laptop.local` is run at the end of the `mac` script.
Put your customizations there. This repo already contains a `.laptop.local`
you can use to get started. It lets you install the following tools
(commented out by default):

* [Atom] - GitHub's open source text editor
* [CloudApp] for sharing screenshots and making an animated GIF from a video
* [Firefox] for testing your Rails app on a browser other than Chrome or Safari
* [iTerm2] - an awesome replacement for the OS X Terminal

[Atom]: https://atom.io/
[CloudApp]: http://getcloudapp.com/
[Firefox]: https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/
[iTerm2]: http://iterm2.com/

To install any of the above tools, uncomment them from `.laptop.local` by
removing the `#`. For example, to install CloudApp, your `.laptop.local`
should look like this:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

# brew_cask_install 'atom'
brew_cask_install 'cloud'
# brew_cask_install 'firefox'
# brew_cask_install 'iterm2'
```

Write your customizations such that they can be run safely more than once.
See the `mac` script for examples.

Laptop functions such as `fancy_echo`, `brew_install_or_upgrade`,
`gem_install_or_update`, and `brew_cask_install` can be used in your
`~/.laptop.local`.

```sh
# Go to your OS X user's root directory
cd ~

# Download the sample file to your computer
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/monfresh/laptop/master/.laptop.local
```

Credits
-------

This laptop script is inspired by
[thoughbot's laptop](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop) script.

### Public domain

thoughtbot's original work remains covered under an [MIT License](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/blob/c997c4fb5a986b22d6c53214d8f219600a4561ee/LICENSE).

My work on this project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE.md), as are contributions to my project. As stated in [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md):

> This project is in the public domain within the United States, and copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
>
> All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0 dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply with this waiver of copyright interest.

Commit message:

Update README with more installation guidance.
I also updated the tools list to reflect the fact that Bundler is installed separately from RVM.

README.md, after:

Laptop
======
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/monfresh/laptop.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/monfresh/laptop)

Laptop is a script to set up an OS X computer for web development.

It can be run multiple times on the same machine safely. It installs,
upgrades, or skips packages based on what is already installed on the machine.

This particular version of the script is geared toward beginners who want to
set up a Ruby on Rails environment on their Mac. More advanced users can
easily [customize](#customize-in-laptoplocal) the script to install additional
tools. To see an example of a more advanced script, check out
[18F/laptop](https://github.com/18F/laptop).

Requirements
------------

I support clean installations of these operating systems:

* [OS X Yosemite (10.10)](https://www.apple.com/osx/)
* OS X Mavericks (10.9)

Older versions may work but aren't regularly tested. Bug reports for older
versions are welcome.

Install
-------

Begin by opening the Terminal application on your Mac. The easiest way to open
an application in OS X is to search for it via [Spotlight]. The default
keyboard shortcut for invoking Spotlight is `command-Space`. Once Spotlight
is up, just start typing the first few letters of the app you are looking for,
and once it appears, press `return` to launch it.

In your Terminal window, copy and paste each of these two commands one at a
time, then press `return` after each one to download and execute the
script, respectively:

```sh
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/monfresh/laptop/master/mac
bash mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log && source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
```

The [script](https://github.com/monfresh/laptop/blob/master/mac) itself is
available in this repo for you to review if you want to see what it does
and how it works.

Note that the script will ask you to enter your OS X password at various
points. This is the same password that you use to log in to your Mac.
If you don't already have it installed, GitHub for Mac will launch
automatically at the end of the script so you can set up everything you'll
need to push code to GitHub.

Once the script is done, it's a good idea to quit and relaunch Terminal.

More [detailed instructions with a video][video] are available in the Wiki.

[Spotlight]: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204014
[video]: https://github.com/monfresh/laptop/wiki/Detailed-installation-instructions-with-video

Debugging
---------

Your last Laptop run will be saved to `~/laptop.log`. Read through it to see if
you can debug the issue yourself. If not, copy the lines where the script
failed into a [new GitHub
Issue](https://github.com/monfresh/laptop/issues/new) for me. Or, attach the
whole log file as an attachment.

What it sets up
---------------

* [Bundler] for managing Ruby gems
* [Flux] for adjusting your Mac's display color so you can sleep better
* [GitHub for Mac] for setting up your SSH keys automatically
* [Heroku Toolbelt] for deploying and managing Heroku apps
* [Homebrew] for managing operating system libraries
* [Homebrew Cask] for quickly installing Mac apps from the command line
* [Homebrew Services] so you can easily stop, start, and restart services
* [hub] for interacting with the GitHub API
* [Postgres] for storing relational data
* [Qt] for headless JavaScript testing via Capybara Webkit
* [RVM] for managing Ruby versions (includes the latest [Ruby])
* [Sublime Text 3] for coding all the things
* [Zsh] as your shell

[Bundler]: http://bundler.io/
[Flux]: https://justgetflux.com/
[GitHub for Mac]: https://mac.github.com/
[Heroku Toolbelt]: https://toolbelt.heroku.com/
[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/
[Homebrew Cask]: http://caskroom.io/
[Homebrew Services]: https://github.com/gapple/homebrew-services
[hub]: https://github.com/github/hub
[Postgres]: http://www.postgresql.org/
[Qt]: http://qt-project.org/
[Ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
[RVM]: https://github.com/wayneeseguin/rvm
[Sublime Text 3]: http://www.sublimetext.com/3
[Zsh]: http://www.zsh.org/

It should take less than 15 minutes to install (depends on your machine and
internet connection).

Customize in `~/.laptop.local`
------------------------------

Your `~/.laptop.local` is run at the end of the `mac` script.
Put your customizations there. This repo already contains a `.laptop.local`
you can use to get started. It lets you install the following tools
(commented out by default):

* [Atom] - GitHub's open source text editor
* [CloudApp] for sharing screenshots and making an animated GIF from a video
* [Firefox] for testing your Rails app on a browser other than Chrome or Safari
* [iTerm2] - an awesome replacement for the OS X Terminal

[Atom]: https://atom.io/
[CloudApp]: http://getcloudapp.com/
[Firefox]: https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/
[iTerm2]: http://iterm2.com/

To install any of the above tools, uncomment them from `.laptop.local` by
removing the `#`. For example, to install CloudApp, your `.laptop.local`
should look like this:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

# brew_cask_install 'atom'
brew_cask_install 'cloud'
# brew_cask_install 'firefox'
# brew_cask_install 'iterm2'
```

Write your customizations such that they can be run safely more than once.
See the `mac` script for examples.

Laptop functions such as `fancy_echo`, `brew_install_or_upgrade`,
`gem_install_or_update`, and `brew_cask_install` can be used in your
`~/.laptop.local`.

```sh
# Go to your OS X user's root directory
cd ~

# Download the sample file to your computer
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/monfresh/laptop/master/.laptop.local
```

Credits
-------

This laptop script is inspired by
[thoughbot's laptop](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop) script.

### Public domain

thoughtbot's original work remains covered under an [MIT License](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/blob/c997c4fb5a986b22d6c53214d8f219600a4561ee/LICENSE).

My work on this project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE.md), as are contributions to my project. As stated in [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md):

> This project is in the public domain within the United States, and copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
>
> All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0 dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply with this waiver of copyright interest.
